Welcome back to the Data Science Hangout, everybody.
Happy Halloween.
If we haven't met before, I'm Rachel.
I lead Customer Marketing at Posit.
Posit builds enterprise and open source tools
for people who do data science with R and Python.
I'm going to keep adding in.
We are also the company formally called rstudio.
I'm joined by my lovely co-host here today, Libby.
Hello, everybody.
I am a Community Manager working with Posit
on the Data Science Hangout.
So I work with Rachel.
And I also work for Posit Academy.
I help teach R and Python for professionals
so that they can do more with data.
We're so happy to have you joining us here today.
The Hangout is our open space to hear
what's going on in the world of data
across all different industries, chat about data science
leadership, and connect with others who are
facing similar things as you.
And we get together here every Thursday
at the same time, same place, except quick note,
not next Thursday, because we do have a webinar with GSK
happening at the same time.
Maybe we can all figure out how to watch it together
and hang out together during.
But just wanted to let you know.
But if you're watching this as a recording
and want to join in the future, there's
details to add it to your own calendar below.
But thank you so much to those who
have made this the friendly and welcoming space
that it is today.
And we're all dedicated to keeping it that way.
So if you ever have feedback for me about your experience
or anything you want to share anonymously, good or bad,
or maybe suggestions for topics to dive deeper on,
I'm going to share a Google form in the chat with you
right now.
I'd love to hear from you.
But you can always reach out to me directly on LinkedIn, too.
At the Hangout, we love hearing from you.
So no matter your years of experience, your title,
the industry you work in, the languages that you use,
we want you to connect with each other in the chat.
Say who you are, where you're from, what your role is.
If you are hiring for any roles, please, please, please
share that.
If you're looking for a role, please also share that.
Share your LinkedIn profile.
Share a link to your website, your repos, whatever it is.
This is a space for everybody to connect in.
And we want you to stay connected even after we leave.
So there are three ways to jump in and either ask a question
or share your experience.
You can raise your hand on Zoom.
We can call you to jump in live.
You can put a question in the Zoom chat.
Feel free to put an asterisk next to it
if you want us to read it.
Maybe you're in a coffee shop or your mic doesn't work today.
We can do that for you.
And then we can also ask a question for you
if you would like to post it anonymously on Slido.
We have a Slido link in the chat.
And if you ask there, you will be anonymous
and we can read your question off for you.
With that, thank you again for joining us.
We're so excited to be joined by our other co-hosts
and featured leader, Steph Locke, Digital and App
Innovation Leader at Microsoft.
And Steph, I'd love to have you introduce yourself
and share a little bit about your role,
also what you like to do outside of work too.
Hi everyone.
Hopefully you can hear me.
So it's Halloween, but also today
was our first global neurodiversity event here at Microsoft.
And one of the common terms in the neurodiverse community
is masking.
So you try and appear normal,
you put on like that work face that you might be thinking,
you might put on on a grumpy day, but we do that generally.
So we are unmasked or masked in my case for today.
So that kind of leads me to the first thing.
Hi everyone, I'm Steph, I'm autistic.
And my day job here at Microsoft is to work with people,
which is a fun challenge because people are irrational,
non-deterministic problems to help solve and understand.
So it's an eternally challenging space for me to play in.
What we do, what myself and my team here do at Microsoft
is we help our enterprise customers ship more value
from their software and their AI solutions.
So we help people make these things real
and then get more and more value from them,
which is a really cool job.
Before that, before I joined Microsoft,
I'd fallen a little bit into data science
from business intelligence and continuously wanting
to do more, predict more.
And that enabled me to use a lot of my math background
and see the value of statistics
because I was always more of discrete maths and pure maths
because what is 30 people on a chi-square physical table
to look things up at, what's the point?
So it was only when I was dealing with millions
of customers that I saw the value
in data science and statistics.
Before I, just before I joined Microsoft,
I'd been running my own consultancy, locked data,
and then tried doing a AI startup for manufacturers.
And my biggest problem, aside of the fact that, you know,
we went from half a million of pipe to zero pipe
in one day when COVID hit,
we went to, we had a nice, easy deploy to cloud button.
And it turns out not a lot of manufacturers are, you know,
doing that whole cloud thing just yet,
especially in small, medium sized customers.
So I kept everybody going through COVID.
And by the end of it,
my bullet journal was meetings and emails.
And we were doing a lot of services.
So I went, you know what?
I'm not having fun anymore.
And looked around for what my next step was.
And that next step was building up
my leadership capabilities
with a kind of a more robust foundation.
So I joined Microsoft.
And I've been able to be a grownup and get a house
and pay off the student loan
and all those things that I postponed
off running in my own business
and keeping everybody paid before I paid myself.
So it's fantastic to be here today
because RStudio, the IDE,
Posit as a company have been close to my heart
for 10 years now,
I think 10 plus years I've been using RStudio.
And it really helps and things like R Markdown
just completely transformed the way that I thought
about what good looks like in the data world.
So it's been incredibly useful and transformational for me.
So I'm always glad to be here and talk to the Posit gang.
Thank you, Steph.
I would love to hear a little bit about
what you like to do in your free time, first of all.
And then I would love to hear sort of how you got to data
initially from maybe your background or what you studied.
Cause I think you've got a degree in philosophy, right?
And like that sort of transition from that to data
feels really wide and it's probably full of fun stuff.
So I'd love to hear about that.
And of course, like what you like to do outside of the job.
So I'm very geeky, just generally.
So I really enjoy cooking, somewhat enjoy gardening
when I wanna go outside.
But I read on average a fiction book a day.
Like I wake up at seven o'clock in the morning.
My partner won't get up till eight.
So I get an hour reading in before I even get out of bed.
I also do a bit of video gaming
and like tabletop RPGs and stuff.
But also like to go out, experience good food, travel.
And I've always used conferences as a great way
to work out where to go in the world
because it's so hard to pick.
So if somebody gives me T and E to go somewhere,
I'm gonna go there.
T and E being travel and expenses.
In terms of how did I get into data science
and data generally?
So I was being very kind of,
maths and science oriented.
When I was 16, I first tried my hand
at kind of building a business idea.
My boss at the time had and learned PHP,
cross-browser compatibility
and front-end development was not for me.
That way lay ulcers.
But then I did various things.
I didn't actually go to university
during my final two years of my degree.
I worked full time and because it was philosophy,
I just kind of read and wrote essays in the evenings
so I could pay all my bills and things.
And I got a job as a product analyst.
We were, as my boss said, we were the new handbag.
Everybody had to have an analyst.
And I did things from schmoozing
and doing karaoke with journalists
through to negotiating contracts with energy suppliers
through to automating sales spreadsheets
and doing forecasting and using all my Excel skills,
using the buy a book scheme
to basically read every single book Mr. Excel
had ever written to write BBA and things like that.
And I just, I really enjoyed the enabling other people
and solving problems and helping people
do a better, make better decisions.
So I convinced somebody to teach me SQL
and then after learning some SQL,
I learned SQL server reporting services
and integration services.
And I still have flashbacks of doing string conversions
between my SQL and SQL server.
And probably the first data science type activity
that I actually did was using SQL server analysis services
to do propensity analysis.
Who would buy different types of insurance?
So I just kind of kept going from there.
I'm very community taught in everything
and I try to give back to the community as a result.
But yeah, I've picked up so much over the years
and learned and I keep going where my passion takes me.
Thank you so much, Steph.
So I know I had first reached out to you,
I think it was maybe a little over a month ago.
And so Hadley had reached out to me and said,
had I had any hangouts around the idea
of how do you persuade your manager
to give you more time to be a better programmer?
And he highly recommended your Earl conference keynote.
And so I thought it'd be great to chat
a little bit about that here.
So what advice do you have for someone
who wants to persuade their manager
to give more time to improve their skills?
Yeah, I always remember a quote that I think
gets attributed to various people
but includes Abraham Lincoln,
which is if I had six hours to cut down a tree,
I'd spend four hours sharpening my axe.
And a side of kind of growing my skills
and financial services and that teaching me
to want to always be right,
the competencies with which we can execute
directly impact the time that we can do something
and the quality by which we can do something.
So if we are not well equipped,
not well equipped if our axes are blunt,
it's gonna take us six hours to chop down that tree.
And then it's gonna take us six hours
to chop down that next tree.
But if you spend that four hours sharpening the axe,
it takes two hours to cut down the first tree,
two hours to cut down the next tree.
And if you keep sharpening for five, 10 minutes
in between each tree, it's only two and a half,
it's like less than two and a half hours per tree.
So that's the way I look at things.
And talk to managers about is, and leaders is that
when we don't have time to hone our craft
to deliver quality and to deliver quality work,
we end up paying far more time in maintenance efforts
and doing things in subpar ways.
So it can feel slower at first,
but you're going slower to go fast, longer term.
Competency and quality baked into everything we do
enables more innovation in the long term.
Thank you so much.
I wanted to follow up with another thing
that was like, Steph wrote about this and talked about this
and it's really important, which is the BAU article.
And I didn't even know what BAU was
before I read that article.
I was like, what is this?
And then everyone told me that this is a thing.
Everybody knows that acronym, but I didn't.
So the topic of it is that BAU is choking development.
And I would love to hear a little bit more about that.
Yeah, so I was really glad to finally write that article
because it's been something that stuck with me for years
is you see people who,
when they don't necessarily have time
to invest in doing things in a way that keeps quality,
that's gonna have high quality
and low maintainability requirements
and is easy to extend and create new things.
When people aren't doing that,
anything they ship is going to then cost them
more time to do something,
to look after whatever they've shipped.
That then gives them less time to ship the next thing.
So the next thing takes longer to deliver.
And then they also have to do the maintenance on that thing.
And as they keep going,
they spend more and more of their time
kind of like hugging, loving, maintaining.
Sorry, I'm in the office today
and it looks like the lights have gone off.
There we go.
So I just have to go and wave around the office like a loon.
Yeah, so the amount of continued efforts
something takes after you initially develop it
for it to continue being useful to other people
takes up your time away from building
the next new useful thing.
And it's slowly but surely stacks up and stacks up
until the only thing you're able to do with your day
is maintain things.
And most people don't get into their jobs
to be maintainers for systems.
They get into their jobs to build great things
and add value.
And it's really hard to feel like you're adding value
when you're just keeping all your previous work going.
So what we can do is,
and this comes down to your question of,
convincing people to have that time for learning.
It also comes down to how do we design things
and work and how do we work
so that the thing that we output at the end
is gonna take less time to keep it adding value.
Because the less time that we can make that take,
the more new things we can build
and the more things that we can support
for the same amount of time.
And so that's something that we all need
to be thinking about is,
are you currently spending too much time
just keeping the lights on and putting out fires?
With a bit of time, could you get that time burden down?
Could you improve your situation?
And could you change the way that you do things
so that you spend less time going forward
on that maintenance, on those activities?
Because those activities aren't adding value,
adding new value,
they're just hopefully keeping old value continuing.
Thank you so much, Seth.
So Libby let me know my audio was cutting out a little bit.
I did a Wi-Fi test.
It seems okay.
So I put different headphones,
but does it sound okay, Libby?
Yep, we're good, okay.
Steph, to dive a little bit deeper
into some of the work you're doing at Microsoft,
would you be able to share a bit
about some of the problems your team helps solve?
Yeah, so I work primarily in software
and the use of AI capabilities,
but a lot of this still ends up being really relevant
for data scientists.
So we focus on a number of areas,
and one of them is what we'd call application modernization.
Somebody built something a while ago,
or in an enterprise,
lots of people have built things and bought things,
and they're all sitting there and running,
but they all have technology
that was current at the time they've employed
and haven't necessarily had a lot of updates since.
And they're going into those kind of maintenance problems
of either people just spending all their time
maintaining things and not shipping value for the company.
Or everybody's stopped maintaining things,
and there's a whole bunch of fires
that people are desperately going,
not me, don't make me fix it.
So we start working with customers to think,
okay, how can you change your perceptions
around people and processes to solve these?
Because it's always a people problem.
Processes support people,
and then tools support processes.
So it's how do you keep the culture
of people, processes, peace first,
but then also how do you bring technology
to help change things?
So in the case of these app modernization scenarios,
how can you use different tools as part of your processes
to start bringing your technology
up to a consistent baseline?
Or how do you take a value-based approach
to where do you drive these efforts and so on?
So we work with a lot of customers on modernization.
And this is in kind of the data world.
This might be all databases.
You might have Hadoop clusters running
with MapReduce jobs.
You might have old versions of Python,
like version two running and not version three.
And software, even when it is,
every software ages and rusts and technology moves on.
So that's one of the key areas.
The other, we also help people build new things.
Well, and better, and kind of think about,
okay, how do you proactively optimize
and how do you make sure you've got great observability
and monitoring to know it's working
and things.
And then the final area that we do a lot of work with
is how does your team
use, have the right processes and tools
to continue shipping value?
So some of you might have heard
Microsoft has a lot of co-pilots.
I'm proud of myself, it's only 24,
it's 24 whole minutes in,
and that's the first time I said the word co-pilot.
But we have GitHub co-pilots
to help developers, data scientists, data engineers,
kind of get some of the grunt work of writing code
that makes a difference,
quicker and more effective.
So how technology teams
provision environments for data scientists,
developers to work in,
what does that look like for third parties and contractors?
What about when you have like a Java estate
and a .NET estate and a Spark estate
and like all of these disparate development stacks?
How do you work and enable somebody
to switch from all of those?
How do you build a consistent compliance
and security backbone automated
inside your development and collaboration environment
like GitHub or GitLab and things?
And so we help customers tackle these types of problems
because there's no silver bullet on any of this.
It's all kind of hard work,
doing culture and process work to enable people
as well as tools.
Thanks, Steph.
I just thought of a follow-up question
I meant to ask you
when we're talking about business as usual work.
I think about this sometimes with like doing things
that I'm just, they just do because I've always done it.
Can you tell us a little bit about like how an initiative
that you've killed or how you go about doing that
or deciding when it's right?
Yeah, so I very proudly, I'm very happy to say
that in Microsoft, which can have a culture
of you need to own things, I've killed two things,
two of my babies this year, this fiscal year.
And it really helps to be able to kill something
when you have had a solid definition of death.
So like with everything, it is amazing
if you can get clarity on what good looks like
and especially when you're thinking about software
or processes or new initiatives.
So one of the things that I killed
is we have discovery processes
to help different parts of customers' estate
whether it's their infrastructure, their data,
their data science or their applications,
be able to understand where their technical data is
and what the value is that they're going to be able to get
in the cloud.
We inherited this activity when we got created
as a new team last year.
And so I formed an initiative to help us be able
to onboard this new capability, help us learn quickly,
share best, share good practices.
I try not to call them best practices,
share good practices and be able to like really embed this
as part of our kind of commitment to excellence.
By the time a year had rolled on,
we had learned everything we needed to learn
as a broader group, the enablement had happened
and people were kind of rolling well or rolling all right.
But then the bits that were still a challenge
wasn't really something that we could do centrally.
It needed distributed efforts.
So I killed the central piece
because I was able to line up accountable people elsewhere
who were thinking about things from the infrastructure side,
the data side, the app side,
for them to be able to go and actually go,
okay, so we're good at this.
What does great look like for us
when we do the input piece, the data piece?
And so now that I killed the central piece
because I was able to put it into different activities,
other initiatives that are running
because those are gonna be able to take things
to the next level.
So my definition of done, get everybody equipped
and enabled to execute was sorted.
And now other people are responsible
for driving their individual areas of excellence.
Thank you so much.
I resonate with that a lot.
And I think that there's a lot of people in the chat
right now who are also going,
yep, I wish we could do that on our team.
I see Stephanie, you have a question in the chat.
Would you like to unmute and ask that?
I'll give you a second.
Another step.
Yeah, Stephanie, if you are not able,
I can also ask it for you.
Okay, I don't see Stephanie unmuting,
so I'm going to ask.
No problems.
All right, the question is,
what was it like transitioning working for yourself
to go into a massive organization?
What was more challenging or which one was easier?
Yeah, moving to Microsoft was both awful
and amazing at the same time
from coming from a business that I ran
and that had like 10 people.
I'd always worked in organizations that were quite small,
like up to 250 people in HQ kind of thing.
So it was really, I've always been used to being able
to execute quickly, to get stuff done.
And so going to Microsoft,
which is such a large organization,
that there are almost inevitably five different departments
who are doing roughly the same thing
that you need to collaborate with to help go further.
When that kind of challenge to going quickly
was quite challenging.
But the idea, but coming into a culture of teamwork
and being able to bring a group together
to get economies of scale
and to be able to build something bigger was fantastic.
And of course, whilst I work for myself,
I love being able to set like the direction
and strategy and everything.
I'll be honest, pay pensions,
being able to afford my own house, sweet, sweet benefits,
cancelling my, in the UK, private medical insurance
isn't a big deal.
In the UK, private medical insurance isn't usually a thing,
but we have fantastic private medical insurance
with Microsoft that's helped cover my partner's transition
entirely instead of it being like a 10 year
agonizingly slow waitlist hell.
Things like that have been so much better
that I wouldn't have been able to achieve
kind of running my own business
than paying other people first.
So big culture, pros and cons,
and it's been a really useful enabler
for kind of my circumstances to be more positive.
Thank you.
I see, Soumya, you had a question in the chat
that I know was for people in the chat as well,
but I thought it might be good to ask out loud too.
Do you wanna jump in?
Hi, yeah, sure.
I am out, so I'm not able to turn my camera on,
but I can speak.
I am an educator.
I am someone who works for a university
and I'm just kind of dipping my toes in the AI world.
I do have a little bit of a data-ish background.
I did a lot of things focused on academia,
was very quant heavy,
kind of in the process of coming out of that
and leaving that life behind.
I know there's lots of other people here
that are also in similar boats, but-
Well, the rest of us are in academia.
I am kind of also looking into the whole AI ethics thing,
which is also a very fun topic.
Turning it in is a huge thing.
And a lot of universities,
it's something that I am very much interested in.
I have a global studies background as well
with my education.
So just making sure that a lot of international students
who do come in and turn in a lot of their assignments,
how they're graded and judged based on others.
So I've been hearing a lot of different things
about linguistics and conversational design and AI.
I would love it if I could connect with someone
and just get some more information
as someone who is super new
to a lot of the heavier data science and tech stuff
that I was previously doing.
Yeah, for sure.
I will put my email address in the chat.
And anybody who wants to connect with me
for this kind of thing can email me
and I will endeavor to connect you with the right person
or chat with you myself about it.
Because yeah, AI ethics is something
that incredibly matters and is one of the reasons
why I'm proud to work at Microsoft.
Because we have been,
like we do things like pushing for legislation,
which how many tech companies push for legislation
of themselves?
Like that kind of thing is just an amazing situation
to be in.
So yeah, well, very happy to connect offline.
That's awesome, Steph.
Thank you.
That's very generous of you.
I saw, I wanted to bring in Kylie,
because Kylie, you asked a question way, way, way
in the beginning and we missed it.
Would you like to ask?
And we're all talking about it in chat, by the way.
So everybody weigh in.
Sure.
Sorry, I can't turn on my camera at the moment.
But Steph, at the very beginning, you said,
you're into cooking, you read a book a day.
And so my natural question is,
what's one of the favorite things
what's one of the favorite books you've read recently?
Or not recently, you know, whatever comes to mind.
I'll give you my latest nonfiction.
So I have been incredibly inspired
and enriched by Brené Pax's work.
So I read Daring Greatly,
which has really helped me think about
even things like the shame I feel around my gender
and how I communicate in my relationships,
but also how I show up as a leader.
And that then led me to read a theme
working through her Atlas of the Heart,
which is a book on emotions of experiences.
Because I have pretty pants recognition
of what's going on in my body and my emotions.
So kind of having some actual effectively
textbook definitions and anecdotes and experiences
of like, this is what sadness is like for a lot of people.
This is, you know, this is positive comparison
and this is negative, you know,
this is like when it goes into unhealthy.
So it's been useful for giving me better vocabulary
and therefore a better personality.
Thank you, that's awesome.
Yeah, anything by Brené Brown is amazing.
And actually even hard for me to read sometimes
because it brings up heavy stuff and I'm like,
oh, I'm having a hard time getting through this.
Well, we had a great, great question on Slido
that I would love to ask.
It says, I feel that as a coder,
I can't progress further in my career
without going into management.
I think that we all experience this at some point.
Any tips for progression,
but wanting to stay at the coding level?
So I think the problem in many organizations
is actually people go in management's frame
as the way to have more influence.
So, you know, you can have leadership without authority
and as a technical person,
what that often looks like is to a certain extent,
moving away from being excellent at the coding side
to becoming a deciding factor in what gets coded.
So this is, you know, how do you,
things like architectural design, what do we research?
What do we invest our time in?
All of these things, kind of some organizations
conflate with management,
but they're technical leadership pieces.
And so you can continue being an amazing coder
for sure, but the challenge is,
and some companies will push it as you can only progress
if you have, if you go into management,
but really the push is for you to go
from being quite directed to directing.
That's the setting strategy to having impact
at a larger scale.
If you want to continue solving these technical problems
or building new algorithms
or kind of being on the technology cutting edge,
there is nothing wrong with that.
You can get amazingly good,
but there is a challenge.
And I think that's the challenge.
You can get amazingly good,
but there are only certain types of organizations
that will respect those boundaries.
And it's okay to have those as boundaries
and continue doing them.
But you might, for various reasons,
prefer to think about how can I have
a greater scale of impact?
And that's where management
or product management architecture,
various bits and pieces will evolve your role.
Thank you.
Yeah, I once had a director tell me,
you'll be ready to go into management
when you start realizing that you want
to make the decisions about how things go
and you want that level of control.
And I think that there's something to that.
You know, I have another great one from Slido.
How do you like...
Oh, go ahead.
Yeah, I was wondering if we could stay
on this one a little bit,
because I like the point you made
about like going from being directed to directing.
And do you have any tips for us on like how you do that?
I know some of the things we've talked about before
in other Hangouts is like,
if you're not at that high leadership level,
how do you get in the room for some of these conversations
and how do you influence the decisions being made?
Yeah, so part of it is,
unfortunately, fortunately, people skills,
but a large proportion of it is actually,
how do you approach your job
in terms of how are you scaling your impact?
So, unfortunately, a whole lot of applications
or machine learning solutions and everything
are kind of like fundamentally the same.
You're gonna go through the same process,
you're gonna write roughly the same code
and it's gonna produce kind of roughly the same outputs.
The way you can scale is,
okay, how do we build the framework
to stop people doing roughly the same thing
bespoke every time?
How do I change the way that we work
to deliver more business value more quickly?
And then how do I tell people
that we're having more business value more quickly?
Because you can't just do it for the funsies,
you need a measurement
and you need to be able to communicate it
in terms of like positive things.
Alternatively, scaling out is one way of doing things.
So like being able to automate the production,
but there's also scaling up your impact.
So you might build that one solution
but then how do you make that one solution
have more impact?
Could it generalize
to a slightly different part of the business?
Could you publish the results?
Do internal knowledge transfer?
Could you help get that through regulatory sign-off processes
when that's not currently your job?
So you can think about how can you add more business value
that is more strategically useful
than the initial act of writing the code is useful.
Because writing the code is useful,
but it's kind of similar with research
in that the act of research is useful,
but almost until something has gone through
its commercialization and commoditization phases
and is turned into something practical.
It's only that practical piece
that proves the value of the research in many cases.
And we might have some positive debates about that
in my perspective on research,
but it's the same kind of thing
when we do a single activity in our work life.
It's how you turn that one piece,
that one-to-one time-to-value effort
into a one-to-many value
that you really start moving up the stack
in terms of influence and perceived impact.
That's awesome, thank you.
I'm glad we stayed on that for a second.
Alrighty, I have a couple more questions here in Slido
and some of them kind of pertain to each other.
One that I really liked was,
what are some of the most impactful ways
that you've seen AI make a difference to your stakeholders?
So my stakeholders are
effectively sales leadership inside Microsoft.
We have people with neurodiversity,
their neurodivergent conditions.
We've got people who are incredibly time-strapped.
We have huge areas of responsibility,
like kind of billions of pounds
or billions of dollars of revenue every year
that they're kind of trying to get
25% plus year-on-year growth in.
So they're a highly capable group,
but they are facing a tremendous amount of change
on a continuous basis.
And like me, it's not that we're triple booked,
we get to choose between three sessions at a time,
where are we going to have impact
in terms of like calendar management?
So it's actually just the base, like co-pilots
is having a really great impact on them,
helping be able to digest emails more quickly,
being able to get a quick kind of TLDR
on a presentation before they work out
where they need to go to go look at specifics
that they need to drill into.
It's helping them never start from a white page.
It's helping them catch up on meetings,
find out what actions they've been assigned,
things that they haven't been able to get to,
helping them analyze how they speak
and convey information and things like that.
So it's just like AI is having
a pervasive productivity benefit
that's enabling all of my key stakeholders
to achieve more, which is super duper cool.
We have a great follow-up to that,
because some of these Slido ones
were sort of in the same vein.
And the question is,
how do you see AI impacting data science roles?
Do you think it will replace jobs
or impact on the skills that data scientists
are going to need?
So this will partly depend on
what people's definitions of AI are.
But I think generative AI
has some amazing advancements
on natural language processing
and how we can interact in a multimodal capability
is really groundbreaking.
And I think we should all invest some time
in knowing how we can leverage
whether it's large language models
or small language models
and how you can consume these things.
Because they can change our interfaces.
They can start supporting some reasoning
and co-generation for us.
But I don't see it replacing data scientists.
It might replace some of the coding
we do as data scientists.
And I think of this kind of the same way.
And I've always been quite dirty about these things.
Like low code interfaces to data science.
So like we had Azure Machine Learning Studio,
you drag and drop,
and you can put a bunch of boxes next to each other.
And you go, hey, I've got a model.
I don't understand it, but I've got something.
You can now call an API.
But the data scientist value for me
isn't how they solve the problem.
It's how they help people understand
and define the problem
and bring the insight to light.
So I think we might change.
Like we might all write less code.
We might be able to get the code part solved sooner.
But our merits in understanding domains,
turning that into scoped challenges and problem statements,
and working out the appropriate steps to solve that
with solid quality outcomes,
that isn't gonna change.
The what won't change, but the how might.
Thank you.
So a question that we love getting asked a lot
and a question that we love getting to ask here
at the Hangout is,
is there a piece of career advice
that you've received over your career
or that you've given somebody
that you'd like to share with us?
I'd like to share one that took me years to break out of,
which I think probably a lot of women get,
which was I started a new job.
I did something really, really impressive
within my first week and sent an email
and said I've done X, Y, Z to solve the problem.
And my manager at the time said,
no, no, not I, say we.
The team did something.
Well, the team wasn't actually involved,
but I kind of got into this habit
of giving away my impact.
Now, it's not that you need to brag
and shout to the world like I'm amazing
and like overhype everything you do,
but you need to recognize
when you're making a positive impact
and reflect on how can I make more of that impact
based on the hard work I've already done?
And a lot of that is actually less about you doing more
and more about enabling other people
to do things with what you've done.
So it involves education, knowledge transfer,
re-templating things, turning things into micro content,
setting up a set of scheduled emails
so that somebody actually reads it,
they read it five times.
And that's something that I think,
I wish I hadn't have gotten effectively a code smell
into my ways of working.
And I think we should all think,
how are you adding value?
Be clear on how you're adding value
and then use that information to pursue more impact
and more scale of your value.
I really, really appreciate that advice.
I can be guilty of that sometimes too.
And just like taking a second to go back
and reread what you said and thinking about
how should I go and change the way I'm saying that?
That's actually one of the ways I like started using
chat to BT was just saying like,
how should I change this to adjust the tone
the way I'm presenting it?
Libby, I know there's a thread going on in the chat
that you've kind of been keeping an eye on.
Is there a question,
anything that we should discuss from that?
Yeah, it's a really great topic.
Javier brought this up,
so I'd love him to unmute and talk about it
if he's still here.
I know sometimes he has to jump for another call,
but it's about being in NIC.
I've been as well.
Hey, sorry, I was just saying,
sorry, I was just saying, yeah, I'm still here.
No, I mean, I just,
I love my job as an IC.
I'm the lead for a machine learning team.
And we do a lot of your traditional data science work.
We do a lot of kind of like MLOps
or engineering around the stack
to support the data scientists at our company.
So I honestly love my job.
It's just when the conversation,
the side conversation was kind of about
compensation and things like that,
and maybe not bank companies
or the biggest of the tech companies
and how it feels like there might be a higher ceiling
for folks in management than ICs.
And even when there is kind of like salary parity
between let's say years of experience or level
between IC and management track,
seems like overall compensation sometimes
is still structured to compensate more heavily
the folks on the management track.
Higher bonuses, they're given stock units sometimes,
different parts like that.
So yeah, I don't know.
It was just a side conversation that was happening.
I didn't know if you had any thoughts on that.
I think one of the key things to remember
is who sets wages.
Right.
And who doesn't set wages.
Yes.
So, you know, the lions feed themselves to a large extent.
Yeah, so I'm not gonna disagree with you.
Like in almost every company in the world,
no, very few of the technology people
will earn as much as like the C-suite
or heads of kind of thing.
Right.
But similarly, like the technology team
might have a higher median salary than jobs
that don't have a high digital component,
but the sales team is probably always gonna out earn you
as well.
Because as much as most organizations value
to a certain extent,
their software, their features, the data science pieces,
none of that matters
without the incoming marketing and sales pieces.
And so the sales team will get,
because of targets and incentives and things,
will earn more than the techies.
And that's...
That's a really good perspective, by the way.
I mean, I like that actually.
So it's, yeah, it's about like perception of value
inside companies determines where the money goes.
Yeah.
Thank you.
Thank you so much.
Well, I know we have just a few minutes left here.
And so I thought a good question to end us on is,
Steph, what's something that you're excited about
in the next six months?
Good question.
Sorry, I'm just...
I'll try and be a slightly more external processor
than an internal processor
and just go super duper quiet
whilst I'm thinking things through.
So on a professional perspective,
in a couple of weeks, it ignites.
And that is when we do a bunch of cool announcements
and things, and it's been GitHub Universe.
And there's like some really cool things
like you can pick now just from ChatGPT
through to Claude and other generative AI solutions
to support your coding kind of thing.
So we've had some cool announcements,
but I'm also excited for the new shinies
that are gonna be coming in a few weeks.
Professionally, I don't think I'm...
Unless something awesome comes along,
next six months, I'll probably still be at my job
because I've had the fun challenge of
my team is seven people in end of June.
And by the end of December, it should be 15 people.
So I'm going through a fun challenge of scaling my team
and kind of maturing that team to excellence.
Personally, my partner is...
It's their birthday in a couple of weeks
and I get to make some jokes about their age
because they're older than me.
But we're going to continue doing great things
with our house, improving our lives,
and doing more coffee mornings
before we catch the train and things like that.
So yeah, I'm very happy to be kind of continuing my life
and continuing to up quality in all the areas.
I love that.
Thank you so much, Steph,
for taking the time to join us today
and for being so open with us
and sharing all of your experiences.
I really appreciate it.
I appreciate the Halloween spirit too.
Thank you.
And thank you, like 92 of you listened to me
for like a whole hour.
So I really appreciate that.
People drop when they're not getting value.
So I'll take that as a ringing endorsement.
Thank you so much, everyone, for listening.
I really appreciate it.
Thank you, Rachel and Libby, for having me on.
And Marlene, you definitely win the Halloween competition.
It wasn't a competition, but you won it.
So thank you.
I agree.
More Halloween.
More fun than Christmas for you.
Well, I hope you have a great rest of your evening
and enjoy Halloween.
Thank you so much, Steph.
Thank you, everybody.